Enscryption meets Chants Of Sennaar

Basic mechanics
    Game within a game
    The player can enter the language learning programme, or walk around "IRL"

    Language learning
    The player can expand their vocabulary by correctly assigning words to their translation

    Knowledge vs puzzle based
    Are there ticks that you can learn to massively expand the scope of the game? Or are things largely puzzle to puzzle based, where skills and knowledge is not super transferable.

    Sapir Worf
    Language changing how you think? Language changing your physical body? Get some body horror in there.

Mechanics
    Walk around the real world. Could have Enscryption movement, probably shouldn't. This is puzzle solving and quasi point and click, so movement should limit what you see to only the most important parts.

    The language solving itself. The most important part of the game, so it should be engaging.
    Principles
        Puzzle-ass puzzles. 
        Guessing shouldn't really be feasible, or ever feel like the right thing to do.

        Perfect information. 
        All information should be known, or able to be found out or intuited through other action.

        Learning vocabulary and grammer.

    "In Game"
        Overworld map, a-la Super Mario. The player can traverse between levels. The player is on a set track initially.

        However, at some point, the player can find a way to break out of the pre-defined paths, allowing them to explore way more of the world.
    
    Potential ideas
        Literally just Chants Of Sennaar. A good base to experiment with, but should be more original.
        Duolingo. Get to the end of the stage without losing too many lives.
        Heaven's Vault
        Hangman 

Inspiration Sources
    David Lynch 
        Dream sequence?
    The Shining
        Fucking dread building up
    House Of Leaves

    Duolingo
    Chants Of Sennaar
    Enscryption
    Fez
    Void Stranger
    Myst
    Braid
    Baba Is You

Story Ideas
    Old floppy discs / CDs / other data format
    Language mascot is some ancient deity
    Government agencies / conspiracies around forbidden knowledge
    Starting digital, going into "real life"
    Mythical references to Babel, Enmarkar
    
Language Ideas
    English / Your language
    Spanish, German, Russian, Chinese, Arabic
    Latin
    Weird fantasy languages with no basis in reality

    